these summer camps students pouring off
the bus at Parkland Elementary School in
quenelle are the beneficiaries of a
remarkable program in fusion arts and
education is based on five simple steps
designed to help teachers give their
students an enriched learning experience
by using the Arts in their classrooms in
quenelle they picked a Wild West theme
to complement the town's Billy Barker
days the infusion is designed to be
driven by imagination from both teachers
and students this is teacher Sharon
muscleman what do you think I am in the
middle of a history lesson I'm a robber
riding horse I was out of my comfort
zone and it was really hard to do but
I'm really proud of myself and I'm
really happy I've done this
alright so what designs did you do on
your horse here teaching language-arts
on the floor of a classroom may seem
like a harder way to reach the plos at
least until you give it a try why did
you choose the rainbow it's not harder
once you're doing it it's harder fitting
my mind around is this real learning
that must be one of the fast horses
ordinarily students in Kathy Braun's
language arts class read the story the
girl who loved wild horses and discuss
it in class but by infusing art into the
learning process the book takes on a
different dimension the girl goes to
in the gym Kim fries ins science
students are using dance to learn about
the weather
another planned learning outcome taught
in an artistic way you can use more than
one learning outcome together
you're then meeting those pillows so in
infusing the Arts now I'm meeting the
arts curriculum as well as the science
curriculum instead of trying to teach
them as separate entities so it actually
saves time and it connects the
curriculum more for the children this is
Claire Cargill's math class studying the
mathematical and musical characteristics
of water this lesson is integrated with
the lesson plans of the other teachers
infusing the arts into schools can
provide better learning outcomes use
their imagination I would just encourage
them to use the numbers in their
wild-west math place that was simple as
that like it doesn't have to be rocket
science to add math to drama
Fusion provides a model for all students
to be able to have the benefits of an
arts education it doesn't require
specialists teachers it just requires
people who are willing to take the risk
and find the art that's in their heart
and implement that in that classroom it
matched the pillows I thought we better
the infusion is also about collaboration
I've got some others that'll be in that
the program is founded on the idea that
when teachers collaborate everyone
benefits it's a really good one in
teaching it so often you're in your
little room you do your stuff and you
forget that there's other teachers out
there who are interested in the same
thing too and this is an awesome way to
sort of deal with that isolation and get
each other going and really help each
other in a supportive way pencil
infusion is supported by 2010 legacies
now and the province of British Columbia
it's designed for use in any school all
the information and planning documents
can be downloaded from the website arts
infusion dot CA thank you so much to all
the parents and grandparents uncles
aunts neighbors who've come to our show
infusion can also help connect to school
to the community celebrating students
accomplishments can consist of art shows
music and dance recitals or as in this
case if you need proof of Arts power to
change children just ask this man his
granddaughter Kaylie is on stage dancing
and that wouldn't have happened only a
short time ago last year's it schooling
that she wouldn't get up in front of the
class and I had to walk in front of
class was there in fact and from that
time to this time with programs such as
this she saw she's gone on stage by
herself
I I had a tear in my eye when when she
was doing that for me and all these
teachers have committed to trying this
out more in their classrooms next year
and so we're gonna see how that goes and
integrating this type of way of learning
infusing the arts into the curriculum
the infusion model is a flexible
easy-to-use framework to implement arts
based education strategies in the
classroom and meet prescribed learning
outcomes at the same time
here the Western theme is brought to
life through a public celebration a Wild
West play linking language arts and
theater a weather dance showcasing
meteorology through the Arts all
inspired by the story of a girl who
loved wild horses this infusion is
complete when will yours begin